 1 Overview of the scenario storylines                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 3 Scenario I: Business-as-usual (BAU)                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 5 This scenario envisions the future based on the current situation, extending to 2050 with very little deviation from present consumption patterns and without substantial development of the secondary raw material (SRM) recovery system
 6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 7 In the Business as usual (linear economy) scenario, the following are key characteristics:                                                                                                                                               
 8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 9 -  A forecasting model is used to predict the future based on the current situation and the development of existing trends.                                                                                                              
10 -  EU targets including those for eco-design, recycling and recovery are not met, and the current linear model largely persists.                                                                                                         
11 -  Material demand remains coupled with economic growth, perpetuating a trend of increasing consumption.                                                                                                                                 
12 -  Primary mining and extraction persist as the leading sources of raw materials, underlining the dependency on traditional extraction methods.                                                                                          
13 -  Recycling and recovery rates continue to lag, leading to increased production of SRM-containing waste that signals missed opportunities for resource reuse.                                                                           
14 -  The EU's dependency on imports of SRMs escalates, heightening the risk of supply disruptions (iea2023crm).                                                                                                                            
15 -  Investment in new SRM recovery technologies remains minimal, stifling innovation and advancements in this field.                                                                                                                      
16 -  The industrial focus remains on cost-effective material production and use, disregarding the long-term sustainability aspect.                                                                                                         
17 -  Material scarcity and price fluctuations pose potential risks to the EU industry, highlighting the vulnerability of this business model (mancini2013supplysecurity).                                                                  
18 -  Without any significant updates to environmental regulations, the negative impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity intensify.                                                                                                          
19 -  Mining activity in the EU remains limited and concentrated in only a few member states. Current exploration projects (e.g., for Lithium in PT, FR, UK and rare earths in SE) are not realised.                                        
20 -  The transitions to renewable energy and e-mobility continue at their current pace.                                                                                                                                                    
21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
22 Scenario II: Recovery (BAU)                                                                                                                                                                                                              
23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
24 In the recovery scenario, the central emphasis is on harnessing sophisticated technologies to salvage SRMs from waste streams at the end of their lifecycle. While there are noticeable strides towards the incorporation of `circular de
25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
26 Key features of this technology-promoted recovery scenario include:                                                                                                                                                                      
27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
28 -  This scenario uses a combination of forecasting and backcasting methods to envision the future.                                                                                                                                       
29 -  The backcasting method is used for scenario factors that are covered by governmental targets, starting with the desired outcome and working backwards to the present.                                                                 
30 -  The forecasting method is used for scenario factors that are not covered by governmental targets, starting with the current situation and extending to the future.                                                                    
31 -  EU targets for recycling and recovery are met, due to the EU's waste management system becoming more expansive, efficient and effective.                                                                                              
32 -  Technological innovation drives increased recovery rates of SRMs, enabling the more efficient use of waste.                                                                                                                           
33 -  Digitalisation and automation are more extensively used in recycling processes, leading to enhanced productivity and efficiency.                                                                                                      
34 -  Business models like leasing and take-back schemes emerge, altering traditional consumption patterns (here, the focus is on take-back for recycling).                                                                                 
35 -  Ecodesign mandates are implemented, again, here, with a focus on end-of-life recovery.                                                                                                                                                
36 -  There is greater exploration and exploitation of alternative sources such as urban mining, waste streams, and tailings, presenting novel opportunities for resource acquisition.                                                      
37 -  New waste regulations and guidelines for SRM recovery are implemented, enforcing better management and extraction of SRMs.                                                                                                            
38 -  Investment in research and development for SRM recovery technologies experiences an upswing, promoting continuous innovation in this field.                                                                                           
39 -  Closer collaboration and information sharing between industry and government institutions (e.g., waste tracking and digital product passports) streamline processes and expedite decision-making.                                     
40 -  New jobs are created in the recycling and recovery sector, offering economic benefits and improving overall employment rates.                                                                                                         
41 -  SRM production and use become more efficient and cost-effective, fostering economic sustainability.                                                                                                                                   
42                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
43 Scenario III: Circularity                                                                                                                                                                                                                
44                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
45 In this scenario, we move in the direction of the maximum achievable state of material efficiency as government policy, private innovation and social changes are rapidly driving the transition toward a circular economy. The emphasis 
46 Further, being enabled by the widespread adoption of `circular design' principles and improvements in information transparency (e.g., waste tracking and digital product passports) the system for the treatment of post-consumer waste c
47 This scenario envisions a future where government policies are in synergy with private sector innovation and societal changes, driving a wholesale transition towards a circular economy. Unlike the recovery scenario, where the focus i
48                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
49 The circular economy scenario is characterised by the following:                                                                                                                                                                         
50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
51 -  This scenario uses a combination of forecasting and backcasting methods to envision the future.                                                                                                                                       
52 -  The backcasting method is used for scenario factors that are covered by governmental targets, starting with the desired outcome and working backwards to the present.                                                                 
53 -  The forecasting method is used for scenario factors that are not covered by governmental targets, starting with the current situation and extending to the future.                                                                    
54 -  EU targets for recycling and recovery are met, as are those for circularity, due to advances in waste management, ecodesign and re-X strategies.                                                                                      
55 -  A circular economy is implemented, prioritising waste reduction, resource efficiency, and a shift from the `take-make-dispose' model.                                                                                                 
56 -  A notable increase in SRM recycling and recovery rates, indicating an efficient use of resources.                                                                                                                                     
57 -  A larger emphasis on designing products for reuse and recycling, making waste a valuable resource rather than a problem.                                                                                                              
58 -  More extensive use of renewable energy and clean technologies in SRM production and use, supporting a low-carbon economy.                                                                                                             
/home/stew/Downloads/firefox/scenario_summaries_plain.txt (6,1) | ft:unknown | unix | utf-8                                                                                                                    Alt-g: bindings, Ctrl-g: help
Saved /home/stew/Downloads/firefox/scenario_summaries_plain.txt                                                                                                                                                                             